# Node.js Workshop - How much should I already know?

The information you should already have is included in [these documents](#js101). You can follow them to build a base for the workshop. Additionally, some [resources](#resources) are mentioned below for participants who want to go an extra mile.

## Resources

### Reference

- [javascript.info](https://javascript.info/)
- [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
- [Node.js Docs - Prerequisites](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/getting-started/how-much-javascript-do-you-need-to-know-to-use-nodejs)

### Practice

- [FreeCodecamp.org - JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures-v8/)
- [CodeDamn - Node.js problems](https://codedamn.com/problem-list/nodejs?page=1)

## JS101

This section is a starter/refresher for JavaScript. For those actively developing in more strict environments like C/C++ or Java, some of the behavior of JS or the extent of its flexibility might come as a surprise. That flexibility can be both a friend and a foe, and requires one treads carefully in the bleak waters. The negative aspects of the flexibility JS provides can be avoided by following general clean code principles.

### Setup

Create a directory for your workspace to follow along with the coding examples. For this part, you can have your browser or Node.js interpret your code - your choice. 

#### Browser

Create a file and call it ```index.html```. Add the following code to this file:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <title>JS Workshop</title>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Deneme Sayfası</h1>
  <script src="./script.js"></script>
</body>
</html>
```

Open the console window of your browser. Assuming a chromium based browser:

```sh
Mac
Command+Option+J

Windows/Linux:
Ctl+Shift+J
```

You will see the results of your work in browser console window. Open index.html in this browser. It would give some sort of error stating it couldn't find script.js, but lets not worry about that at this point. When asked to check the result, refresh your browser window and look at the console.

#### Node.js

Make sure Node.js is installed and your OS terminal is open, navigated to the directory you have ready to use as your workspace. You will see the results of your work in this window. When asked to check the result, enter ```node ./script.js``` in your terminal.

### Hello World

Now that we are ready, lets open our IDE and create a file named ```script.js``` in the same directory. Enter the following code in this file and save, then check the results.

```js
// This is my first script!
console.log('Hello, World!');
```

This would print ```Hello, World!``` in your console. Congratulations! You have written your first JS script!

Assuming a non-null background in this field, lets summarize some of the aspects:

- **console.log()** is a built-in function that displays the output through stdout - the standard output stream in a computer program. So for the browser, its the browser console, and for Node.js it is the terminal it was invoked from. _Calling this function would be analogous to logging in this workshop here onwards._

- **console.log()** can take multiple arguments, separated by commas: ```console.log("Hello",  "World", 1, 2, 3);```

- The semicolon is not a compulsion, interpreter can decide when an instruction has ended based on line breaks, but it is a best-practice for some edge cases where ambiguity is possible.

- **()** implies a function call, and function parameters are passed separated with commas; just like in Java or C#.

- Single-line comments are preceded by ```//``` and can be in-line.

- Multi-line or block comments are encapsulated by ```/*``` and ```*/```. 

```js
/*
This is 
a multiline 
comment
*/
```

### Operators 

